Review Report Form
Quality of English Language
(x) The English could be improved to more clearly express the research.
( ) The English is fine and does not require any improvement.
Yes	Can be improved	Must be improved	Not applicable
Does the introduction provide sufficient background and include all relevant references?
( )	(x)	( )	( )
Is the research design appropriate?
( )	( )	(x)	( )
Are the methods adequately described?
( )	(x)	( )	( )
Are the results clearly presented?
( )	(x)	( )	( )
Are the conclusions supported by the results?
( )	(x)	( )	( )
Are all figures and tables clear and well-presented?
(x)	( )	( )	( )
Comments and Suggestions for Authors
This article assesses the impact of palletization and temperature on bag-in-box wine packaging under simulated export conditions. The effect of increasing the chamber temperature to 50°C on changes in the chemical content of wine and changes in the pressure inside pallets during simulated transport is examined. However, the reviewer believes that the study raises several issues that require clarification:

1. The authors obtained a fairly extensive experimental data set. However, their hypothesis was essentially to verify previously obtained data for other packages regarding temperature and to test whether stacking configuration affects the internal pressure of 3-liter BiB units. It is impossible to evaluate the impact of stacking configuration in this design, since different configurations are used at both temperatures, and their data are averaged for analysis. A difference of one package is quite small and is unlikely to be significant given other factors. A difference of more than two times the number of packages, in the reviewer's opinion, may be significant, but this requires further investigation.

2. The study assessed changes in chemical composition during simulated transport. It was found that sulfur oxide levels decreased and acetic acid levels increased, but these changes were insignificant for taste perception. The question remains: will this loss of sulfur oxide affect the shelf life and storage conditions of wine after transportation?

3. One of the authors' main conclusions is that it is advisable to use pressure sensors during transportation. However, as the authors argue, pressure sensors can only be used to assess package integrity. How economically feasible is the use of sensors for large loads?

5. According to the data obtained, at a temperature of 50°C, the pallet temperature is lower than the ambient temperature and does not reach 50°C even on the 20th day. However, at a temperature of 19°C, the pallet temperature is higher than the ambient temperature, reaching 23°C. What explains such different behavior of the wine packages during actual thermostatting, even though, according to the graphs, they were cooled before the experiment?

 6. The difference in data obtained in the main experiment and the verification experiment is significant for a temperature of 50°C. Given this difference in data, is it highly likely that an error was made in the main experiment at 50°C? What explains such a large difference in data? Is it possible that with larger pallet volumes, the temperature difference within a pallet will be even smaller?


Comments on the Quality of English Language
The text is sometimes written in complex sentences, making it difficult to understand the essence. For example, lines 198-202, 332-336, etc.

Submission Date
23 July 2026
Date of this review
11 Aug 2026 10:26:50